Welcome back everyone to part four of texture Narration In part four we're gonna be focusing on creating
the model.
We'll start off by setting up a lost function and then we'll create the model.
In this case this can be a pretty simple model just three layers and embedded layer a gated recurrent
unit layer and a dense layer one neuron per vocab character.
All right let's head over to the notebook and continue where we left off.
All right here we're at the notebook where we left off last time I want to quickly get some variables
out of the way.
One is vocab size which is just the length of the vocab list we made earlier essentially how many characters
or unique characters there are.
There's 80 for the next is the embedding dimension for our embedding layer.
So this is something you can play around with.
We're going to choose 64 since it's more or less in the same range as our total vocabulary size.
You don't want to go too large on this.
Otherwise you'll start embedding two too many dimensions where some of the mentions are features discover
there aren't gonna be very useful.
So you want to choose something at the same scale of your actual vocabulary size and then we're going
to just have a single layer.
So in our layer we'll just choose a lot of neurons.
So let's go ahead and choose one thousand and twenty six or 1024 doesn't really matter to much the details
there but we're going to choose to stay single layer with a lot of neurons.
This is something you can really play around with.
You can choose multiple layers and you can choose things like Ellis Tam layers or gated recurrent unit
layers stack them on top of each other you can add in drop out but we're going to try to just create
the simplest model that can produce realistic results.
And in our case that's just three layers.
OK so let's create a function that is going to actually create a loss function for us but to do that
I need to do a couple of imports first we're going to say from tensor flow that carries losses import
sparse categorical cross entropy and just using the tab for this.
So because our labels are one hot encoded we're going to need to use sparse categorical cross entropy.
And you can check out our notebook we have a link discussing the difference between sparse categorical
cross entropy versus just categorical cross entropy and cares.
And if you want more details on this you can just say help on this function sparse categorical cross
entropy and it will show you that essentially this from logics is what we need to edit.
So from logics that essentially relates to whether or not you're one hot and coded we are one encoded.
So we need this to be true which means we can't just pass in the string sparse categorical across entropy.
So we're going to do is we're essentially going to wrap this will say sparse cat loss take in y true
and widespread just as this original function does and then we're going to return sparse categorical
cross entropy function with that y true and Y spread however we'll specify that from logic it's is true.
So that's the main reason why we have to create our own custom lost function here.
Because when you specify this parameter to be true and the reason we can't just pass in the default
sparse categorical cross entropy is because the default there is false.
So we'll see in a second and we actually pass in the loss why that happens to be the great case.
So let's create the model we're gonna do this through a function that way when you're dealing with your
own vocabulary setting up text datasets you can easily adapt dysfunction to your own models.
So this will take in the vocab size the embedding dimensions the number of neurons and the recurrent
neural network layer and then the batch size all things you can edit sort of functional eyes in this
again kind of repeatability will create a sequential model which means you actually have to import these.
Let's go ahead and do that in a cell here.
Well just as we always do we'll import from tensor flow that curious that models import sequential and
then from tensor flow care to stop losses actually weeps from the curious the Lear's import and we'll
be using in embedding layer a gated recurrent loops G are you all caps and then a dense layer and you
can play around with this you can switch set for an Alice tablet if you want you can add in drop out
layers etc. really up to you but we'll use the simplest network possible that gives us realistic results.
So now I can say model sequential and let's add in those layers.
So the first layer is going to be that embedding layer which embeds this to some amount of dimensions
will say embedding go ahead and passing the vocab size.
So the actual input is if we do shift type here I'll tell you what is the actual input I much expected.
So the vocab size is the input dimension and then that's going to be output to some embedding dimension.
So embed dimension and then the batch input shape.
So if we take a look at this function and continue going down it has these keyword arguments that you
actually don't get to see and one of them if you end up looking at documentation is batch underscore
input underscore shape and the shape is just going to be batch size by none.
OK so that's the embedding layer.
Next we're going to add in our gated recurrent unit layer where we have the number of recurrent neural
network neurons you can choose in this layer and there's a couple of things we're gonna be showing you.
Slash playing around with.
So if we expand on this you'll notice it has a couple of parameters here.
They can do.
You can actually specify a drop out call within this layer which is kind of nice but the main thing
we're gonna be doing is we're going to say return sequences is equal to true.
And we're also going to say that Stateville is equal to true.
And if you kind of scroll down and start reading about these So first we'll show you return sequences.
So this basically tells the layer whether or not you returned the last output and the output sequence
or the full sequence.
And we do need to return that since we're dealing with those sequences shifted over by one time step
we want to see that history and then state full if it's true which we are going to say it's true.
Then the last state for a sample at the index I in a batch is going to be used as the initial state
for the sample of index.
In the following batch.
So we want it to keep that current state.
OK so we'll go ahead and pass those and it's true.
So say return sequences is true and then but this in a new line so state a little space we'll say state
full is true and the last thing we're also going to specify is the actual initialize or of the weight
values for our current layer.
And we can do this by saying recurrence underscore initialize R is equal to.
And there's several string codes can pass in here.
If you notice that the original signature of this function it takes in the kernel initialize her as
Gloria uniform but the recurrent initialize are as orthogonal.
So we're gonna change based off of just research in this topic that they recur initialize are typically
performs better if it's set to the glory uniform as well.
And Gloria is actually just the name of the person that developed this.
His name is save your Gloria so he has the first name is Xavier your last name Gloria.
So this is typically things are named after your last name.
If you're a researcher and develop them but for whatever reason it's actually quite common that people
just refer to this as exhibit initialization which is actually the guy's first name.
So it's kind of interesting.
And at the time of this filming he currently works at Deep Mind.
So he's very much still active in the space all right.
So finally we're going to add in our dense layer easiest to understand because it's just the vocab size
OK.
So then we compile our model we'll go ahead and compile it with the atom optimizer and then with our
loss function and for our loss function we actually just pass in the function itself.
We do not call the function and the because of the fact that we don't we're not allowed to call the
function inside us compile call.
That's the reason we had to essentially edit this function a little bit in order to specify from largest
is equal to true because there's no way could specify from largest equal to true if you're not allowed
to actually call the original function which by default has from largest equal to False.
So that's why we're not able to just pass in sparse categorical cross entropy as a string here because
this from logic statement.
OK.
Once you're done with all that we'll simply return the model.
Go ahead and run that and let's create the model.
So say models equal to create model.
The function we just made the vocab size is equal to the vocab side so we just defined the embedding
dimension is equal to the embedding.
I mentioned variable we created recurrent number of neurons equal to recurrent number of neurons and
then batch size is equal to the batch size you specified earlier.
So pretty much we've already made all these.
Go ahead and run that and then call for your model summary and it should look something like this.
So notice the shapes right here specifically notice the back seat.
So the hundred twenty eight is our current batch size.
Later on we're going to do when we're training the model is we will actually change this upon reloading
the models weights to expect just the batch size of 1 so coming up next in step number five we're going
to show you how to train the model and we'll first make sure everything is OK with our model by actually
running it without any training to just get a bunch of random characters.
So we'll do that in the very next video.
I'll see you there.